>> Richard Feldman: So
one other use for, sorry, so
that's essentially the trade
offs between these three.
So the first one lists attribute
message with a lowercase m.
It says I will accept any type of
attribute you want to give me,
I don't care what it is,
just throw it at me and I will accept it.
Second one says, give me an attribute
that is specifically your message type.
Like this concrete,
I want this exact type of message.
And the third one says,
only give me a list of unbound attributes.
They have to still be unbound
when you provide them to me,
otherwise I will not accept them.
They can't be doing any
event handling on them.
So those are the trade offs, and there are
good reasons to use all three of these.
Okay, so
the reason that it's called never,
incidentally as we saw anyone
can define their own never type.
They don't have to call it never,
they can call it whatever they want.
The whole point of it is just to
define it in terms of itself so
that it can't be instantiated.
Test is a reused one that
comes with the core package,
and its purpose in that
package is with tasks.
And it's called never because the idea is
it represents a task that never fails,
a task that cannot possibly fail.
And it's used in this function,
Task.perform.
So tasks in Elm, if you've never used
them before, are essentially the idea of
sort of a chainable command
is one way of thinking of it.
So it's gonna perform an effect of some
sort, a task might include things like
running an HTP request, you can
convert your HTP requests to tasks.
You can chain them together and
say when this task is done,
run this next task assuming the previous
one succeeded, things like that.
And by default tasks much like
result have both an error type,
as well as success type.
So you can say like I have a task for
example of http.error as well as
whatever the success value of your HTTP
request is based on what it's decoding.
And what Task.perform is saying right
here is first, it's saying, okay,
I need a way to translate your
success type into a message.
And I need you to give me
a task that never fails.
I need you to give me a task that still
has its error type unbound because this
task is not capable of producing errors.
So its exactly the same principle
that the test was using to say,
I want a list of attributes
that do not produce messages.
This is saying I want a task
that does not produce errors.
And if so then I can give you
a command that will work.
So essentially this is saying, give me
a way you can convert success type into
a message, and then I'll take your task,
which I know can't fail, I'll run it,
I know it's gonna succeed
because it can't possibly fail.
It'll give me that success value,
I'll convert that into a message, and
then there's your command.
This is in contrast with Task.attempt,
which requires two of these functions
right here, one for the success case and
one for the failure case.
Perform says, you don't need to specify
what to do in the failure case,
because by this type I know that
the failure case can't come up.
So that's an example,
here is a task that can never fail.
This is called getViewport and it returns
the dimensions of the entire window
present, which of course can change,
that the user can resize the window.
So depending on when you call this it
might give you a different answer which is
why the task is opposed to just a plain
function that just returned the viewport.
So getting the viewport is
a task that can never fail.
It will always return an answer.
And that's represented by the fact that
its error type is still unbound in
the function.
Sorry, it's not a function,
it's just a value.
So here's the type of getViewport again,
remember for
the next slide that we're
accepting a Task Never a.
So let's say,
our message type says, we have
one variant called ViewportChanged,
and it accepts a Viewport.
We're gonna call Task.perform passing
ViewportChanged which was the aid to
message function which is to say,
this variant right here.
It has getViewport as the other argument,
which is Task x Viewport.
Now remember that, that second argument
there was expecting a Task Never a,
so a is the success type which is
accurate for what we want here.
And then basically Elm is going to
unify these two and say okay great,
this is going to give me back.
So it's expecting a task that never
fails which is to say Task Never a and
what we're giving it is a Task x Viewport.
So it's actually going to unify
both of those at the same time,
in the same way that we saw
with Open Records previously.
So the first type variable,
it's gonna say, okay, Never and
unbound, that unifies to Never, because
Never is the more constrained of the two.
And then for the success type it's
gonna unify unbound a with Viewport and
unify those the more constrained Viewport.
So in the end, it says, well,
we have a Task Never Viewport.
Fantastic that works,
that does what we want.
And so I will compile and convert it to
command and everything works out great.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: I'm assuming the reason that
getViewport, the error type isn't
actually Never is that it can be used for
other tasks that are maybe less-
>> Richard Feldman: Yes, exactly, yeah.
So the reason that this is not Never,
but rather an unbound type is yeah,
exactly, so that it is
compatible with any other tasks.
So if you wanna chain this
together with other tasks,
it's really important that
it be compatible with them.
If we're gonna chain two tasks together,
they have to have the same error type, or
at least compatible error types.
So that if something fails, Elm knows what
the error type is that it's gonna send
to the message that
represents that failure.
So this can be chained together
with absolutely anything,
because there's no chance
that it's gonna fail.
So just use whatever error
type the other thing has, but
that wouldn't be true if it
were Task Never Viewport.
Are there questions?
Okay, so to recap,
we talked about units of measure and
how we can prevent expensive
space equipment from crashing,
by using custom types with type variables.
We talked about accessible HTML and sort
of ways that we can implement that and
prevent ourselves from constructing
paragraph tags that have
click handlers on them by using never.
We talked about the other uses for
the never type specifically in tasks,
the idea of a task that can never fail.
And finally,
we talked about type parameter design in
the context of the trade offs between
phantom types and non-phantom types.
We talked about how we can use Never as
a constraint to require that something is
still unbound.
And how that will unify with
when you have two different type
variables as we saw in
the case of Task.perform.